Revert "Revert "[DOC-9373] Add upgrade instructions for v23.2 Pre-Production Preview"" (#18166)
cockroachdb/docs: src/current/cockroachcloud/upgrade-to-v23.2.md

---
title: Upgrade to CockroachDB v23.2 Pre-Production Preview
summary: Learn how to upgrade your CockroachDB cluster to v23.2 Pre-Production Preview
toc: true
docs_area: manage
page_version: v23.2
prev_version: v23.1
pre_production_preview: True
pre_production_preview_version: v23.2.0-beta.3
---

{% if page.pre_production_preview == true %}
[CockroachDB {{ page.pre_production_preview_version }}](https://www.cockroachlabs.com/docs/releases/{{ page.page_version }}#{{ page.pre_production_preview_version | replace: ".","-"}}) is available to CockroachDB {{ site.data.products.dedicated }} clusters for testing and experimentation.

{{site.data.alerts.callout_danger}}
This [testing release]({% link releases/index.md %}#release-naming) is not qualified for production environments and not eligible for support or uptime SLA commitments.
{{site.data.alerts.end}}

An [Org Administrator]({% link cockroachcloud/authorization.md %}#org-administrator-legacy) can upgrade your CockroachDB {{ site.data.products.dedicated }} cluster from the CockroachDB {{ site.data.products.cloud }} Console. This page guides you through the process of upgrading.

{{site.data.alerts.callout_success}}

> Upgrading from {{ page.prev_version }} to {{ page.pre_production_preview_version }} is a major-version upgrade. Upgrading a CockroachDB {{ site.data.products.dedicated }} cluster to a new major version is opt-in. Before proceeding, review the CockroachDB {{ site.data.products.cloud }} [upgrade policy](https://cockroachlabs.com/docs/cockroachcloud/upgrade-policy#pre-production-preview). After a cluster is upgraded to a Pre-Production Preview build, subsequent patch releases are applied automatically, including additional v{{ page.page_version }} Beta and Release Candidate (RC) releases, the GA release, and patch releases after GA.

Reviewer: Edited because the existing text ("subsequent patch releases [...], including [...]) makes it sound like the later RC/beta releases _are_ patch releases, but that contradicts our definition of patch releases on another page.

```suggestion
Upgrading from {{ page.prev_version }} to {{ page.pre_production_preview_version }} is a major-version upgrade. Upgrading a CockroachDB {{ site.data.products.dedicated }} cluster to a new major version is opt-in. Before proceeding, review the CockroachDB {{ site.data.products.cloud }} [upgrade policy](https://cockroachlabs.com/docs/cockroachcloud/upgrade-policy#pre-production-preview). After a cluster is upgraded to a Pre-Production Preview release, it is automatically upgraded to all subsequent releases within v{{ page.page_version }}—including additional beta and RC releases, the GA release, and patch releases after GA—which are all treated as [patch version upgrades]({% link cockroachcloud/upgrade-policy.md %}#patch-version-upgrades).
```

Author: Reworked to avoid the need for an emdash.

> Upgrading from {{ page.prev_version }} to {{ page.pre_production_preview_version }} is a major-version upgrade. Upgrading a CockroachDB {{ site.data.products.dedicated }} cluster to a new major version is opt-in. Before proceeding, review the CockroachDB {{ site.data.products.cloud }} [upgrade policy](https://cockroachlabs.com/docs/cockroachcloud/upgrade-policy#pre-production-preview). After a cluster is upgraded to a Pre-Production Preview release, it is automatically upgraded to all subsequent releases within {{ page.page_version }}—including additional beta and RC releases, the GA release, and patch releases after GA, as [patch version upgrades]({% link cockroachcloud/upgrade-policy.md %}#patch-version-upgrades).

Author: ```suggestion
Upgrading from {{ page.prev_version }} to {{ page.pre_production_preview_version }} is a major-version upgrade. Upgrading a CockroachDB {{ site.data.products.dedicated }} cluster to a new major version is opt-in. Before proceeding, review the CockroachDB {{ site.data.products.cloud }} [upgrade policy](https://cockroachlabs.com/docs/cockroachcloud/upgrade-policy#pre-production-preview). After a cluster is upgraded to a Pre-Production Preview release, it is automatically upgraded to all subsequent releases within the same major version—including additional beta and RC releases, the GA release, and subsequent patch releases after GA, as [patch version upgrades](#patch-version-upgrades). To learn more, refer to the 
 [Upgrade Policy]({% link cockroachcloud/upgrade-policy.md %}#patch-version-upgrades).
```

Author: Is this what you had in mind?

An [Org Administrator]({% link cockroachcloud/authorization.md %}#org-administrator-legacy) can upgrade your CockroachDB {{ site.data.products.dedicated }} cluster from the CockroachDB {{ site.data.products.cloud }} Console. This page guides you through the process of upgrading.

{{site.data.alerts.callout_success}}

> Upgrading from {{ page.prev_version }} to {{ page.pre_production_preview_version }} is a major-version upgrade. Upgrading a CockroachDB {{ site.data.products.dedicated }} cluster to a new major version is opt-in. Before proceeding, review the CockroachDB {{ site.data.products.cloud }} [upgrade policy](https://cockroachlabs.com/docs/cockroachcloud/upgrade-policy#pre-production-preview). After a cluster is upgraded to a Pre-Production Preview release, it is automatically upgraded to all subsequent releases within {{ page.page_version }}—including additional beta and RC releases, the GA release, and patch releases after GA, as [patch version upgrades]({% link cockroachcloud/upgrade-policy.md %}#patch-version-upgrades).

Reviewer: same feedback as the other case

> Upgrading from {{ page.prev_version }} to {{ page.pre_production_preview_version }} is a major-version upgrade. Upgrading a CockroachDB {{ site.data.products.dedicated }} cluster to a new major version is opt-in. Before proceeding, review the CockroachDB {{ site.data.products.cloud }} [upgrade policy](https://cockroachlabs.com/docs/cockroachcloud/upgrade-policy#pre-production-preview). After a cluster is upgraded to a Pre-Production Preview release, it is automatically upgraded to all subsequent releases within v{{ page.page_version }}—including additional beta and RC releases, the GA release, and patch releases after GA, as [patch version upgrades]({% link cockroachcloud/upgrade-policy.md %}#patch-version-upgrades).

Author: ```suggestion
Upgrading from {{ page.prev_version }} to {{ page.pre_production_preview_version }} is a major-version upgrade. Upgrading a CockroachDB {{ site.data.products.dedicated }} cluster to a new major version is opt-in. Before proceeding, review the CockroachDB {{ site.data.products.cloud }} [upgrade policy](https://cockroachlabs.com/docs/cockroachcloud/upgrade-policy#pre-production-preview). After a cluster is upgraded to a Pre-Production Preview release, it is automatically upgraded to all subsequent releases within {{ page.page_version }}—including additional beta and RC releases, the GA release, and patch releases after GA, as [patch version upgrades]({% link cockroachcloud/upgrade-policy.md %}#patch-version-upgrades).
```
The `v` is already in the variable.
